Label-free quantification is complicated by run-to-run LC peptide separation variability. Although LC 
reproducibility is now far more robust than in the past, peptide elution times can vary by seconds to 
minutes, with peptide-to-peptide variability not necessarily being a linear relationship. Retention time 
alignment is commonly performed across a dataset to improve the reliability and reproducibility of 
label-free results. A number of different algorithms have been developed to align peptide retention 
times across analytical runs. Two such algorithms have been developed with HDMSE and MSE as 
their main applications. The first, developed by the Tenzer lab, implements retention time alignment 
within the IsoQuant software and aims to improve the reproducibility of quantitative results derived 
from MSE derived data [46]. Here a Dynamic-Time-Warping algorithm aligns all runs to a reference 
run that is chosen based upon the highest number of detected signals. The second algorithm is built 
into the Synapter program developed by the Lilley lab which facilitates the merging of MSE and 
HDMSE quantitative data [47]. Synapter performs alignment by LOESS fitting, to model retention time 
deviations, when comparing two samples. Retention time deviations are then corrected according to 
this model in a similar approach to those used for peptide intensity normalisation. Progenesis uses a 
third method to improve peptide LC time alignment. A 2D representation of each MS run is created by 
plotting m/z against RT. Alignment is based upon the placement of alignment vectors which act as 
landmarks that connect a peptide ion location from the two runs being aligned. By placing a number of 


retention time scaling using DTW prior to progenisis


what are the units of measure for drift time?


MSc Bioinformatics with Systems Biology 
Viva Schedule 2015/16
Tuesday 13th September 2016
Location: TBC

AYLMER, David
11.45






SESSION: Data Mining in SQL Server Analysis Services (Brian Knight)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m_DzhW-2pWI

frequency of sequence to affect weights

figures

repeatable for other shite

barcharts of intensity minimum maximum

data mining models lift chart for sequence prediction
using drift time, not using drift time

Flat Schema, OLTP schema, OLAP schema


clustering

ckmeans
Algorithm omega score, and timing estimate prediction for dynamic programming of 


data mining model prediction




MapViewOfFile?


preallocate database and logsizes

remove constraints, remove primary keys.. heap index?

ExecuteNoQuery



batch commits, commit every 1000 inserts, or every second